Only one definition of memory
-----------------------------

At least, Mick Rugg says this in his talks (Mick is one of the giants of
learning and memory neuroscience). Roughly, memory is the reinstantiation of
some pattern of neural activity that was also present at some previous point.
This is often accompanied by recognition that this is a reinstantiation, though
recognition appears to be a graded signal (cf. Signal Detection Theory,
Hypnosis via Erdyeli).

We only really have one definition of leaning
---------------------------------------------

I haven't heard this outside of the machine learning community, but at least in
that community we've so far needed the following for meaningful or effective
learning:

- A value metric
- Some way of changing our "rules" (aka. wiring, parameters, policy) for
  our behavior

We can easily provide concrete examples of this and do so in the *Feldenkrais
Method*®. We start with examples that are directly tied to sensation.
Feldenkrais' use of the word optimal speaks directly to the maximum value
within a metric -- and interestingly, the metric is left somehow unspecified
(and thus, at least partly subjective). We can also witness these principles in
the gestural practices in the *Sounder Sleep Method®*.

Note that evolution can also be described in exactly the same way!

- The value metric is reproductive success
- The changes are accomplished via approximately *random* genetic mutation

Critically, note that this kind of learning doesn't require *any* thought. It
happens automatically. And indeed, automatic learning that closely approximates
this process is likely a key part of our own learning.

But learning can be *greatly* accelerated by adding predictions or *models* to
the learning process.

We can easily provide concrete examples of this and do so in the Feldenkrais
Method. For this, we engage our imagination or expectations prior to making a
movement. Or alternatively, focus on the beginning of a movement and
extrapolate to the imagined continuation, or perhaps even deploy our attention
and introduce a pause before initiation (cf. Kahneman's systems I and II, also
Clark and Ivry).  Interestingly, models and predictions are *not* a
particularly central part of *Sounder Sleep* practice.

This brings us to a critical aspect of sleep. One of the hallmarks of sleep is
that we are *not conscious*. And while scholars go round and round about the
nature of consciousness, it seems fairly clear that ongoing predictions and
models at the very least *contribute substantively* to consciousness.

A less well-known aspect of sleep is the existence of *sleep-dependent
consolidation*. This is a fancy term for learning that has at least some
component that correlates with sleep (and potentially some specific phase of
sleep).

Thus, it follows that *efficiently* learning to fall asleep will entail a
somewhat different attitude (wiring, parameters, policy) from much of what we
do to *efficiently* learn more optimal movement. Similarly, Michael repeatedly
insisted that the gestural practices in *Sounder Sleep* were quite distinct
from meditation, and indeed that skillful meditation is arousing and will
*prevent* sleep. Understanding the differences between "waking up" in
meditation vs.  "drifting off" using a hypnogenic gesture may be critically
related to this consideration.

Let's explore this together.

Minor Corollary
---------------

The orthodoxy of individuals learning in their sleep during ATM or even FI may
be dependent on whether sleep comes from exhaustion, or alternatively due to
the need to "go offline" to consolidate learning.
